
# NetTask. A connection Monitor and Firewall for Windows

This project is a **connection monitor and firewall for Windows**, designed to provide enhanced security and control over system network connections. It was created as a personal initiative to have a more strict and reliable firewall without external dependencies.

## Features

The system provides an intuitive web interface to monitor, analyze, and manage network connections in real-time. Its main features include:

- **Geolocation of destination IP**: Displays the geographical location of IP connections, including a Google Maps visualization.
- **Domain resolution**: Identifies the domain associated with the IP.
- **Blacklisting analysis**: Checks if the destination IP is in blacklists, providing an additional layer of security.
- **IP blocking and unblocking**: Allows the user to manually block or unblock any connection based on their analysis.
- **Advanced search**: Filters connections by IP, executable PID, and domains.
- **Connection summary**: Provides a detailed summary of connections by executable or a general summary of all active connections.
- **Process Watchdog**: Monitors specific executables, actively closing any connection generated by them, regardless of the PID.
- **Interconnected connections analysis**: Identifies complex patterns of interconnected connections, helping detect potential threats or abnormal behaviors.

## Project Motivation

The project was born from the need for a stricter firewall capable of offering full control over network connections without relying on the trustworthiness of executable certificates or external databases. The intention is to provide users with all the necessary tools to perform a deep analysis and detailed control of connections and processes in their system.

## System Capabilities

- Runs a web server in the background, providing an interface for firewall management.
- Displays a system tray menu for quick interaction.
- Manages firewall settings to dynamically block or unblock connections and executables.
- Allows real-time visualization of connection status, enabling users to make decisions based on security.

## Main Components

- **`nettask.py`**: Business logic and network connection management.
- **`server.py`**: Server logic that manages the web interface.
- **`utils.py`**: Auxiliary functions, such as event handling and system tray icon management.
- **`firewallHandler.py`**: Firewall management, including the process watchdog.
- **`winHandler.py`**: Window and system event management.

## Technology Stack

This project uses the following technologies:

- **Language**: Python 3.x
- **Web Framework**: Flask
- **Frontend**: HTML/CSS, Google Fonts
- **Network connections**: Socket
- **Parallel processing**: Threading
- **Operating system interaction**: ctypes, Pywin32
- **HTTP requests**: requests
- **Data analysis**: pandas
- **System process information**: psutil
- **Executable creation**: Pyinstaller

## How to Start the Project

1. Clone the repository.
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/AlejandroJemic/nettask-firewall.git
   ```
2. Install the dependencies.
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
3. Run the web server.
   ```bash
   python server.py
   ```
4. Access the web interface from your browser at `http://localhost:8090`.

## Contribution

If you wish to contribute to this project, please open an issue or submit a pull request. Contributions are welcome.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License].
